I first heard of veganism from my younger brother when we were children. He was an animal rights activist, carrying around and distributing pamphlets like ‘does your food have a face?’ to all our neighbors, in hopes to turn more people to veganism. Our parents brought us up as vegetarians, as many families in India do as it is something passed down in families through most Indian religions. In traditional vegetarian families, eating meat is considered to be very cruel to animals and a taboo topic. As a family, we didn’t eat meat, fish or eggs, but consumed all dairy products. Motivated by my brother and my love for animals, I tried being vegan for a while as a child, but I remember hating the taste of the homemade soymilk my mom made to try to support our dietary choice, and so at some point I stopped. 

As I grew older and moved away from home, for a while I didn’t pay any particular attention to my dietary choices other than being vegetarian by habit. As a college student living a hostel life where we weren’t allowed to cook, I hardly paid attention to what I was eating, my friends and I were mainly focused on finding food we liked. However, I was always somewhat of an animal rights activist and also cared about sustainable choices for the environment, but never took any big steps towards either of these things.

When I moved to the US in August 2014, on my first grocery run, I remember seeing almond milk, and feeling pretty amazed! I went back home later that night and Googled veganism and watched a bunch of factory farming videos. The videos were so heartbreaking that I  immediately felt the need to take some action. I could not ‘love animals’, and continue to consume animal products - I needed to be morally consistent. Over the next few months, I realized how easy it was to be vegan in the US! There were so many dairy-free milk and cheese options readily available. I tried all the alternatives at my local Target and stopped buying any dairy products. I still ate regular cheese, butter and milk in restaurants for a few months, until on January 14, 2015 I transitioned to being fully vegan. 

It’s been pretty easy and a lot fun ever since! Being vegan has made me develop a passion for food, cooking and finding alternatives for everything I loved and didn't want to eat anymore. I love looking up recipes, cooking, paying more attention to and learning more about nutrition, understanding the science behind nutrition, trying store-bought as well as homemade alternatives of milks, butter, cheese and chocolate. I love baking and eating desserts, so I have especially enjoyed vegan baking and watching people be pleasantly surprised that the baked goods are vegan - that’s always a delight!

There have been a few hiccups in my journey, for instance when I tried getting vegan food at a conference in Park City, Utah to no avail. Initially, every time I ate any dairy, I felt very guilty, but as years have passed I have learned to accept any small hiccups and not to let them affect me too much. It’s not always easy to have vegan food accessible so small exceptions are definitely okay by me. I’ve also experienced instances of when people cook for you and get offended if you don’t taste it etc., and that’s always been slightly uncomfortable, especially in India, where people take it much too personally if you don’t eat food they have lovingly prepared for you. I’m not trying to make enemies out of humans over my love for animals. It’s a fine line between standing up for your morals and beliefs (very much required in order to preserve self respect and making sure you’re not taken advantage of) and not offending no harm-meaning friends, family and acquaintances. I’m trying to improve on my navigation of this fine line with each passing day! 

The world is becoming more and more conducive to a vegan diet as time passes, and that has been so exciting! I remember buying a bunch of shares the day Beyond Meat went public and I was elated when there was so much buzz around it and it was mainstream news! Once in a line at Burger King in the airport, all four people in front of me ordered the Impossible Whopper, which was pretty amusing as well. Back in India too, there are more and more vegan restaurants and bakeries which were unheard of when I was growing up. I absolutely love being vegan and I am thrilled by how embracing the future looks for vegans and the veganism movement. Going vegan was the best decision of my life, and I’m eager to share everything I’ve learned along the way and things I’m learning every day!

  
